Scenario: Developing a new login feature for an application.
1. Create a Feature Branch:
Developer creates a new branch for the login feature.
git checkout develop
git checkout -b feature/login
Work on the Feature:
2. Developer works on the login feature, making several commits.
git add .
git commit -m "Add login form"
git add .
git commit -m "Implement authentication"
Push the Branch and Open a Pull Request:
3. Developer pushes his branch to GitHub and opens a pull request.
git push origin feature/login
he then opens a pull request on GitHub from feature/login to develop.
4. Review and Merge the Pull Request:
Team members review the pull request, suggest changes, and approve it.
The pull request is merged into the develop branch on GitHub.
5. Create a Release Branch:
When the develop branch is ready for release, a release branch is created.
git checkout develop
git checkout -b release/1.0.0
6. Prepare for Release:
The team tests the release branch, fixes bugs, and makes final adjustments.
git add .
git commit -m "Fix bugs for release"
7. Merge Release Branch into Main and Develop:
Once the release is stable, the release branch is merged into both main and develop.
git checkout main
git merge release/1.0.0
git checkout develop
git merge release/1.0.0
-----

1. if we have prometheus in one server and grafana in another one. 
if we mention the prometheus IP in grafana UI to get the data.
What if the grafana server is down, how to do we configure to auto fetch the IP address when its recreated.

Ans::  I think creating r53 record of the server and providing it within the configuration,
 will avoid the issue. Please let me know your thoughts on this..


2. service-discovery will identify the new nodes every time and add them to prometheus to get monitored
But how can we automate the installation of node_exporter agent in nodes when they created automatically 
as part of auto-scaling or replication etc.

Ans:: we can use ansible-playbook to automatically configure and deploy node_export on new nodes.
 (or) you can attach user data script like install node_exporter, create systemd service,
 reload and start node_exporter this script you can attach autoscalling group launch templates, 
 whenever new instance created ensuring run the script on start up

2. Where do you keep secrets in Jenkins?
5. After Terraform apply you are experiencing slowness, how do you trobleshoot?
11. If the deployment fails how do you rollback in Jenkins?

-----------------
1. How to backup Jenkins?
From the main menu select Manage Jenkins, then go to Plugins>Available and search for backup

2. Where do you keep secrets in Jenkins?


3. What is Terraform import?
Terraform import is a Terraform CLI command used to read real-world infrastructure
 and update its state so that future updates to the same set of infrastructure
 can be applied via Infrastructure as Code (IaC)


4. Distinguish between Terraform init, Terraform validate and Terraform apply?
Initialize terraform::
Terraform init - terraform will check for providers. It will download AWS providers and keep them.
Terraform plan - terraform will show what are the resources it is going to create.

Validate syntax, if correct then it will show the resources, it will create

.gitignore file = do not push to git repository


5. After Terraform apply you are experiencing slowness, how do you trobleshoot?



6. I want to create static website in docker. Which instruction you use?
	Install Docker on your local machine if you haven't already. 
Navigate to your project's root directory in the terminal. 
Run docker build -t my-static-website . to build the Docker image. 
Run docker run -p 8080:80 my-static-website to start a local instance of your website on port 8080.

7. configmap and secrets in Kubernetes?
ConfigMaps are typically used for non-sensitive configuration data, 
while Secrets are used for storing sensitive information. 
ConfigMaps stores data as key-value pairs, 
whereas Secrets stores data as base64-encoded data,
 thereby ensuring an additional layer of security.
 
 
8. Diff ALB and Network load balancer?

9. How do you host one application in multiple servers using Jenkins?
you will require a Product called Deployer installed on one of your instances and 
define all possible target servers (and target groups) there. 
After the servers are defined you can install the WmDeployerResource package from there to the targets.

		rrrrr
install ansible on the jenkins-agent. pip install ansible or apt install ansible.
Load your ssh key into Jenkins credentials store.
 I assume here that you use the credential store plugin 
 (but you could also load it into an ssh-agent, or use some other method to expose the key on the jenkins-agents.)

10. Statefulset and Daemonset?
StatefulSet -->>> Used for stateful applications i.e., which should have some storage.

Daemonset will make sure a pod runs in every node. why this is useful?
we have to access underlying node logs and push them to elastic search for log monitoring. 
if we run deamonset in kubernetes, it make sure a pod is automatically created when new node is added.


11. If the deployment fails how do you rollback in Jenkins?


12. If the pod crashes continuously how do you troubleshoot?
If one of the containers in the Pod fails, then Kubernetes may try to restart that specific container. 

Run the kubectl describe pod [name] command for the problematic pod. 
The output of this command will indicate the root cause of the issue. 
This can be one of the following: Wrong image name or tag—this typically 
happens because the image name or tag was typed incorrectly in the pod manifest.



13. If a container is consuming more memory in Kubernetes how will you trobleshoot?
If a Container allocates more memory than its limit, the Container becomes a candidate for termination. 
If the Container continues to consume memory beyond its limit, the Container is terminated.